### Introduction
The [Civic Innovation Corps](https://www.codingitforward.com/summer-fellowships) is empowering the next generation of technology leaders to innovate at the intersections of technology and public service in state, county, and local government offices across the United States. Fellows work across software engineering, data, design, and product management to deliver policy, improve systems, and strengthen products on behalf of the American people. 

We are grateful for host office partners who provided our Fellows with the opportunity to serve and grow this summer: 
- **Arapahoe County, CO:** Department of Information Technology Digital Services Team
- **Athens-Clarke County, GA:** County Manager
- **Austin, TX:** Transportation (Data & Technology Services)
- **Baltimore, MD:** Mayor’s Office of Performance & Innovation (Innovation Team), Mayor’s Office of Recovery Programs
- **Boston, MA:** Analytics Team, Department of Contract Services
- **Buncombe County, NC:** Strategy & Innovation Department
- **Carlisle, SC:** Equity Broadband
- **Charlotte, NC:** Innovation & Technology Department (Smart Cities)
- **Cincinnati, OH:** Office of Performance & Data Analytics (OPDA)
- **Des Moines, IA:** The City Manager’s Office
- **Detroit, MI:** Connect 313 Data Team
- **El Paso, TX:** Department of Information Technology (User Experience Division)
- **Long Beach, CA:** Department of Public Works (Contracts and Grants Division), Technology & Innovation Department (Digital Services and Data Analytics), Technology & Innovation Department (Smart Cities)
- **Los Angeles, CA:** Civil, Human Rights and Equity Department; Innovation Team; Mayor’s Office of Budget and Innovation (Data Team); World Airports IT Data Management
- **Missouri:** Office of Administration (Division of Personnel)
- **New Jersey:** Office of Innovation
- **New York City, NY:** Department of City Planning (DCP) Digital Services, DCP Engineering Team
- **Philadelphia, PA:** Fire Department (GIS and Analytics Unit), Parks & Recreation Strategy & Engagement Division
- **San José, CA:** The Mayor’s Office of Technology and Innovation
- **Syracuse, NY:** Digital Services Team
- **Utah:** Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget

Meet the 59 young technologists who served in our second cohort: [Introducing the 2022 Coding it Forward Fellows](https://blog.codingitforward.com/introducing-the-2022-coding-it-forward-fellows-b14bac95c58f)

This repository features the slides that Fellows presented during their respective end-of-summer presentations at their host offices. View a recording of Coding it Forward’s [virtual end-of-summer celebration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X5t_Bma0QYQ&t), with keynote remarks from Erie Meyer, Chief Technologist at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

### About the Fellows 
**_Kindly note that if a Fellow's biography does not have a link, their work is not publicly available._**
 
**Alina Spatz** is a rising junior at the Rhode Island School of Design studying Graphic Design with a concentration in Computation, Technology, and Culture. This summer, she worked as a Design Fellow for the Athens-Clarke County Geospatial Information Office on several products focusing on equity, non-profit collaboration, and integrating the community's lived experiences with data visualization. She designed the identity, visuals, and content for the Neighborhood Snapshot website and built its layout in ArcGIS. The platform gives residents tools to learn more about the county's 16 elementary school attendance zones, explore interactive data, and get in touch with local resources. | [Presentation](Vignesh_Venkatachalam_Alina_Spatz.pdf)

**Alyson Lam** is a recent graduate of Georgia Tech with a degree in Industrial Design. This summer, Alyson worked for the City of El Paso as part of the User Experience team, alongside Yuval Keren and Parita Shah, to build an augmented reality application that allows users to interact with local art by projecting images at designated hotspots throughout the city.  This application was developed as part of a larger effort to meet El Paso's strategic planning goals by making innovative technology more visible and accessible to residents. The team's work will be launched at El Paso's annual Chalk the Block festival in October 2022, where it has the potential to be utilized by 45,000 individuals. | [Presentation](Yuval_Keren_Alyson_Lam_Parita_Shah.pdf)

**Alyssa Li** is a Master's student at Stanford University studying Mechanical Engineering. This summer, she led a user research project at Philadelphia Parks and Recreation, recommending how the department can build an intranet that addresses the needs of its 700 full-time and 1,300 seasonal employees. Her work included interviewing 28 field-based and administrative staff, facilitating workshops, and creating a journey map of a complex internal process. | [Presentation](Alyssa_Li.pdf) 

**Andrew Brieff** is a Master’s student at Tufts University studying Urban and Environmental Planning. This summer, he worked alongside Jingyi Huang for the New York City Planning Department on their Data Engineering team. During his fellowship, Andrew worked to enhance the city’s core data products through data pipeline improvements and to develop a new web application for quality assurance and quality control of regular data updates. | [Presentation](Andrew_Brieff_Jingyi_Huang.pdf) 

**Angela The** is a Master’s candidate in Computational Analysis and Public Policy at the University of Chicago. This summer, she worked as a Back-End Engineering Fellow at the City of San José Mayor’s Office of Technology and Innovation. Alongside Nikita Kalje and Chen Sean Huang, she developed a new website for San José’s Digital Inclusion Fund. Using React, Javascript, HTML/CSS, and Firebase, her work focused on creating a database system for the website’s content, adding multi-language support in Spanish and Vietnamese, and supporting other equity and website accessibility concerns. | [Presentation](Angela_The_Nikita_Kalje_Sean_Huang.pdf)

**AnJu Hyppolite** recently completed a one-year coding fellowship with Pursuit. This summer, she worked at the New Jersey Office of Innovation on the Business First Stop team alongside Soma Badri. They worked on developing the Navigator, a one-stop application that allows entrepreneurs to create and maintain a business in New Jersey. | [Presentation](Soma_Badri_AnJu_Hyppolite.pdf) 

**Asher Lipman** is a rising senior at Cornell University studying Information Science. This past summer, he worked as a full stack engineer for the city of Long Beach, California's Smart City Initiative. His work included building a platform with online and offline components to better support the transparency and accountability of the city's smart-city technology. | [Presentation](Asher_Lipman_Shannon_Lin.pdf)

**Ben Gelman** is a senior at Princeton University studying Politics and Data Science. This summer, he worked as a Data Engineering Intern for the Boston Analytics Team, helping improve the City’s data pipelines to increase the accessibility and clarity of publicly available data. He also expanded the office’s workflow dependency diagrams, which map out the relationships between different pieces of the city’s software, adding more flexibility and functionality. | [Presentation](Benjamin_Gelman.pdf)

**Brinda Sapra** is a final year Master's student in the Computational Analysis and Public Policy program at the University of Chicago. This summer, she worked at the City of Boston on the Department of Innovation and Technology's Analytics Team, helping the Environment Department use computer vision techniques to train a machine learning model that can identify wetlands in Boston. Her work aims to save costs associated with aerial surveys and in-person City staff visits to locate a wetland in the city for resource planning. | [Presentation](Brinda_Sapra.pdf)

**Brooke Bernstein** is a rising second-year Master's student at the University of Pennsylvania studying Social Policy and Data Analytics. This summer, she worked at the City of Long Beach at the Office of the City Manager, alongside Kaveri Chhikara. They built the Long Beach Recovery Act Updates dashboard, which externalizes key performance indicators for the spending of the city’s over $270 million in Long Beach Recovery Act funding. | [Presentation](Brooke_Bernstein_Kaveri_Chhikara.pdf)

**Calgary Haines-Trautman** is a Master of Industrial Design student at the Rhode Island School of Design, entering her final thesis year. This summer, she worked with the City of Boston Strategic Procurement Team, researching and designing a proposal for a procurement workflow that brings stakeholders into the early development process, helping to advance City goals. Her work resulted in actionable next steps for procurement stakeholders to begin piloting parts of the proposal. | [Presentation](Calgary_Haines-Trautman.pdf)

**Chen Sean Huang** is a Master’s candidate for Engineering & Management in Human-Centered Design at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. This summer, he worked at the City of San José Mayor’s Office of Technology and Innovation as a User Experience Fellow, together with Angela The and Nikita Kalje to revamp a new Digital Inclusion Fund website for San Joséans. Leveraging human-centered design tools, he helped better define users’ needs and pain points, re-structure the information architecture of the previous website, and visualize the whole content in a more user-friendly fashion. | [Presentation](Angela_The_Nikita_Kalje_Sean_Huang.pdf) 

**Christina Andrade** is a second-year graduate student at San José State University studying Human Factors and Ergonomics with a focus in Human-Computer Interaction. This summer, she worked at Arapahoe County on the Digital Services team, helping to develop a reusable user research framework and to research the current state of customer engagement for the Motor Vehicles (MV) department. Her work focused on developing and coalescing insights from over 1,500 qualitative survey responses, Google analytics, user interviews, and user observations into personas and findings for eight key MV research questions. Her efforts also resulted in a reusable user research framework and a volunteer recruitment database for the county to use in future research initiatives. | [Presentation](Christina_Andrade.pdf) 
 
**Diya Baliga** is a rising junior at the University of California - Los Angeles studying Computer Science and Engineering. This summer, she worked at the City of Long Beach with the Technology and Innovation Office and Office of Sustainability, alongside Joyce Mok and Yuxin Zheng, to design, build, and maintain technology aiding the city's climate action initiatives. Together, they created an improved dashboard communicating the purpose and progress of the city's Climate Action and Adaptation Plan. They additionally ideated and built a web application to support urban greening programs in Long Beach. Her work will support the launch and maintenance of the action plan and allow residents to access critical green infrastructure.

**Eddie Chong** is a recent graduate of the University of Illinois - Chicago with a Master’s in Civic Analytics. This summer, he worked at the City of Philadelphia Fire Department with the GIS Department, alongside Olaoluwa Adewoye, helping the Fire Department leverage make data-informed decisions. His work resulted in 12 summary reports for different fire battalions in Philadelphia and three dashboards for internal use. | [Presentation](Eddie_Chong.pdf) 

**Elsie Mpere**
 
**Evan Doran** is a second-year Master of Public Administration graduate student at the University of Georgia. This summer, he worked at the State of Missouri Office of Administration in the Division of Personnel, analyzing data and conducting independent research on state employee turnover. His work simplified data and analysis from 16 agencies, 140 divisions, and 39,000 employees for non-data audiences, providing important workforce context and information ahead of the upcoming Missouri legislative session, where turnover remains a prescient issue. | [Presentation](Evan_Doran.pdf) 
 
**Francesca Loiodice** is a recent graduate of Barnard College, where she studied Computer Science. This summer, she worked at the City of Long Beach, developing tools to prepare the Public Works Department for the influx of federal grants over the next several fiscal years. As a part of this effort, she built a grant toolkit to provide staff with resources and support throughout the complex grant process. | [Presentation](Francesca_Loiodice.pdf) 

**Ha Nguyen** is a rising junior at the University of Rochester studying Political Science and Business Information Systems. This summer, she worked at the State of Missouri Office of Administration in the Division of Personnel, helping state leaders gain insights into the health of their workforce and the performance of their anonymous survey programs. Ha designed analytics in Tableau and conducted both qualitative and quantitative research. Her work resulted in three cloud-based interactive dashboards, accessible infographics, and research memos that impact 47,000 state workers. | [Presentation](Ha_Nguyen.pdf)

**Hannah Triester** is a rising senior at the University of Michigan studying Information and Public Policy. This summer, she worked at the City of Baltimore Mayor’s Office of Performance and Innovation, helping to expand free public Wi-Fi services in the City and design the user experience for residents connecting to the network. Informed by extensive user research and community engagement, her work resulted in the development of prototypes for the service website and a hotspot locator tool. | [Presentation](Hannah_Triester.pdf)

**Heewon Kwon** is a Ph.D. candidate at the University of Hawai‘i at Manoa, where she is studying Social and Cultural Psychology. This summer, she worked at the Utah Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget as a User Experience Fellow to redesign Utah’s Boards and Commissions website and application process alongside Srinidhi Ramakrishna and Marina DeFrates. She carried out extensive user interviews and pilot testing, optimizing the understanding of pain and improvement points. Heewon contributed to the creation of a minimum viable product plan that will make the website user-friendly, increase and diversify citizen engagement on boards, and simplify the application review system. | [Presentation](Heewon_Kown_Marina_DeFrates_Srinidhi_Ramakrishna.pdf)

**Hope Zheng** is a rising junior at Cornell University studying Information Science. This summer, she worked at the New York City Department of City Planning on the Digital Services team alongside Evelyn Chen. They designed an application to equip New York City residents with information to understand their communities better.
	
**Inessa Royt** is a recent alum and current Captain of the COOP Careers Data Analytics program and is an alum of Correlation One’s Data Science For All Empowerment program. This summer, she worked at the City of Baltimore Mayor’s Office of Recovery Programs, which oversees and administers American Rescue Plan Act funding on behalf of the City. Iness used Excel, R, SharePoint, and Teams to analyze data and share actionable insights about millions of dollars of ARPA funding allocations. Her insights and visualizations were used internally and for Mayoral memos and public-facing materials. In addition, Inessa created an Asana Enterprise tools guide and collected input from relevant stakeholders for an office product development project, leaving documentation and wireframes to be used for an MVP of a long-awaited forecasting tool. | [Presentation](Inessa_Royt.pdf)  

**Jared Mitovich** is a rising sophomore at the University of Pennsylvania studying Computer Science and Communication. This summer, he worked for the City of Cincinnati in their Office of Performance & Data Analytics, helping to create a public-facing, user-friendly Tableau dashboard to present the results of the city’s first-ever community survey. His work helped externalize City priorities based on residents’ satisfaction and importance ratings given to a wide variety of City services, allowing users to gain broad and more detailed insights based on the demographics of the survey respondents. | [Presentation](Jared_Mitovich.pdf)  

**Jenna Flanagan** is a career changer and a recent Springboard Data Science graduate. This summer, she worked as a Data Engineering fellow with the City of Boston, where she performed an audit of ETL pipeline workflows and created data unit tests to ensure data quality. Focused on datasets being posted as public data, she created 76 new tests, documented 38 workflows, and helped set up a test suite documentation feature for future use. | [Presentation](Jenna_Flanagan.pdf)  

**Jingyi Huang** is a second-year Master's student at Carnegie Mellon University studying Public Policy and Data Analytics. This summer, she worked at the New York City Department of City Planning on the Data Engineering Team, alongside Andrew Brieff, helping to implement regular updates of core data products, build out pipelines to ingest source data, and develop quality asssurance and control applications for multiple data products. | [Presentation](Andrew_Brieff_Jingyi_Huang.pdf) 

**Joseline Ayala** is a graduate student at San Diego State University studying Big Data Analytics. This summer, she worked at the Utah Governor’s Office of Planning & Budget to create interactive data visualizations depicting how projects funded by Utah taxpayer dollars are progressing. In addition, Joseline helped solve back-end issues relating to database management and process improvements to ensure data is more accessible, accurate, and responsive to users.
 
**Joyce Mok** is a rising senior at the University of California - Los Angeles studying Cognitive Science and Statistics. This summer, she worked at the City of Long Beach with the Technology and Innovation Office and the Office of Sustainability, alongside Diya Baliga and Yuxin Zheng, to further the city’s climate action initiatives using human-centered design. As a team, they improved the city’s existing Climate Action and Adaptation dashboard to communicate its climate action goals better. They also created a web application to support the Office of Sustainability’s urban greening program. Overall, their work improved upon existing technology infrastructures to help Long Beach move forward in achieving its sustainability goals.

**Julia Camacho** is a rising sophomore at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology studying Computer Science and Urban Science and Planning. This summer, she worked as a Data Analytics fellow at the City of Boston Department of Innovation and Technology. Her work focused on building a dataset for housing code enforcement cases and performing initial analysis to inform policy recommendations. In addition, Julia also created data visualizations for city performance management goals and built a dashboard for the Human Rights Commission.

**Kaveri Chhikara** is a rising second-year Master's student at the University of Chicago studying Computer Science and Public Policy. This summer, she worked at the City of Long Beach in the Office of the City Manager, alongside Brooke Bernstein. They built the Long Beach Recovery Act Updates dashboard, which externalizes key performance indicators for the spending of over $270 million in Long Beach Recovery Act funding. | [Presentation](Brooke_Bernstein_Kaveri_Chhikara.pdf)

**Mahima Varanasi** is a recent graduate of the University of Southern California with a degree in Industrial and Systems Engineering. This summer, she worked at the City of Charlotte on the Smart Cities Team to develop and plan out tools for their community, including a public Wi-Fi Finder and a Community Engagement Hub. Additionally, she focused her work on accessibility and the end-user experience, which led to several recommendations for the city staff to implement as they go about updating their existing websites and tools as part of their digital inclusion strategy. | [Presentation](Mahima_Varanasi.pdf)  

**Nikita Kalje** is a rising senior at Santa Clara University studying Mathematics and Computer Science. This summer, she worked at the City of San José Mayor’s Office of Technology and Innovation as a Front-End Engineering Fellow alongside Angela The and Chen Sean Huang. She developed a website for San José’s Digital Inclusion fund, utilizing various languages and frameworks to take the designs and convert them into code. She also connected the website to the back-end code and database. Her work will go on to impact tens of thousands of donors, grantees, and San Joséans to allow them to receive access to more resources to be more digitally connected than before. | [Presentation](Angela_The_Nikita_Kalje_Sean_Huang.pdf)

**Olaoluwa Adewoye** is a rising junior at Bowie State University studying Computer Technology. This summer, he worked at the City of Philadelphia Fire Department in the GIS Department, helping migrate large projects to the department's new domain. His main work focused on the creation of a widget that would be able to autofill PDF report templates from the selection of a feature in a map layer.

**Parita Shah** is a rising junior at Harvard University studying Computer Science on the Mind, Brain, and Behavior track. This summer, Parita worked for the City of El Paso as part of the User Experience team, alongside Alyson Lam and Yuval Keren, to build an augmented reality application that allows users to interact with local art by projecting images at designated hotspots throughout the city.  This application was developed as part of a larger effort to meet El Paso's strategic planning goals by making innovative technology more visible and accessible to residents. The team's work will be launched at El Paso's annual Chalk the Block festival in October 2022, where it has the potential to be utilized by 45,000 individuals. | [Presentation](Yuval_Keren_Alyson_Lam_Parita_Shah.pdf)

**Rebecca Brand** is a rising second-year candidate for the Master in Design Engineering at Harvard University. This summer, she worked for the City of Austin Transportation Department within its Data & Technology Services division. Her project included the design of a new visualization platform to map the city’s ongoing mobility projects, promoting data transparency and conversations around sustainability and equity in urban environments. | [Presentation](Rebecca_Brand.pdf)  

**Reginald Mousa Touré** is a rising senior at Virginia State University studying Computer Science. This summer, he worked at the Los Angeles Mayor’s Office of Budget and Innovation on their Data Team. He was tasked with recreating a nationwide study by The Urban Institute that analyzed denial rates and racial disparities in the mortgage market. His work involved using R to wrangle anonymized Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data from the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council’s data browser and clean it to exclusively analyze the City of Los Angeles on a census tract level. Mousa provided data that cross-analyzed applicant race, occupancy location by census tract, denial reasons, occupancy type, and loan purpose for use on the Office’s Racial Equity site. He also used ArcGIS to geographically map denial rates and demographics on a publically available interactive dashboard. | [Presentation](Reginald_Toure.pdf)  

**Rose Eichelmann** is a recent graduate from the University of Texas at Austin, where she studied Sustainability and Geography. This summer, she worked at the Austin Transportation Department in the Data & Technology Services team as a Full-Stack Engineer, where she contributed to the City's open source codebase resulting in her features being a part of the latest release of the Vision Zero Platform. | [Presentation](Rose_Eichelmann.pdf)
 
**Shahnoza “Shanna” Kurbonshoeva** is a Master's student at Baruch College’s Marxe School of Public and International Affarirs. This summer, she worked at the the Des Moines City Manager’s Office on the Key Performance Measurement Initiative alongside Tiffany Mar, analyzing 12 departments' yearly key performance indicator (KPI) data and researching best practices to develop and visualize KPIs. Her work resulted in the creation of 13 web pages on the city website to display the measures. | [Presentation](Shanna_Kurbonshoeva_and_Tiffany_Marr.pdf)

**Shannon Lin** is a recent graduate of the University of Pennsylvania with a Master's in Engineering and a Bachelor's in Engineering and Cconomics. This past summer, she worked as a Product Manager for the City of Long Beach Smart City Initiative. Her work included building a platform with online and offline components to better support the transparency and accountability of the city's smart-city technology. | [Presentation](Asher_Lipman_Shannon_Lin.pdf)

**Shuxin Zhou** is a recent graduate of Pomona College, where she studied Computer Science and Sociology. This summer, she worked with the City of Syracuse’s Digital Services team, helping to create a chatbot for the city website. Her work resulted in all of Syracuse (population of 142,553) being able to ask more than a hundred questions to the chatbot about the city of Syracuse's services, recreational activities, and more. | [Presentation](Shuxin_Zhou.pdf) 

**Soma Sai Kumar Badri** is a second-year master's student at Northeastern University studying Computer Science. This summer, he worked at the New Jersey Office of Innovation on the Business First Stop team alongside AnJu Hyppolite. They worked on developing the Navigator, a one-stop application that allows entrepreneurs to create and maintain a business in the state of New Jersey. | [Presentation](Soma_Badri_AnJu_Hyppolite.pdf) 

**Srinidhi Ramakrishna** is a recent graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, where she studied Political Science and Survey Research & Data Analytics. This summer, she worked at the Utah Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget as a Product Management Fellow to redesign Utah’s Boards and Commissions website and application process alongside Heewon Kwon and Marina DeFrates. Through extensive user research, prototyping, and pilot testing, she prioritized features and managed roadmaps to create a minimum viable product plan to make the website user-friendly, increase and diversify citizen engagement on boards, and simplify the application review system. | [Presentation](Heewon_Kown_Marina_DeFrates_Srinidhi_Ramakrishna.pdf)

**Tiffany Mar** is a rising sophomore at the University of California - Berkeley, studying Society and Environment. This summer, she worked at the Des Moines City Manager’s Office on the Key Performance Measurement Initiative alongside Shanna Kurbonshoeva, analyzing 12 departments' yearly key performance indicator (KPI) data and researching best practices to develop and visualize KPIs. Her work resulted in the creation of of 13 web pages on the city website to display the measures.

**Vedaant Kuchhal** is a rising junior at Olin College of Engineering studying Engineering with a concentration in Computing. This summer, he worked at the City of Los Angeles Mayor's Office on the Innovation team, where he worked primarily on processing COVID-19 data. His work involved updating public dashboards, reporting key trends, and coordinating with the city's Emergency Management Department to send out this data to hundreds of community partners. As part of his work, he refactored and automated large parts of the data pipeline in Python and led research on including wastewater data in the city's COVID-19 data analysis. | [Presentation](Vedaant_Kuchhal.pdf)

**Vignesh Venkatachalam** is a rising second year at the University of Chicago’s Harris School of Public Policy pursuing his Master’s in Computational Analysis and Public Policy. This summer, he worked as a Data Analyst for the Athens-Clarke County Geospatial Information Office, building a series of neighborhood snapshots to showcase the character of the county’s 16 elementary school attendance zones. The snapshots comprise public-facing interactive ArcGIS dashboards that draw from more than 15 data sources and metrics and assist the neighborhood leaders with data-driven policymaking on domains including Housing & Economics, Transportation & Accessibility, Community Health, Education & Workforce, and Crime & Safety. | [Presentation](Vignesh_Venkatachalam_Alina_Spatz.pdf)

**Yuxin Zheng** is a recent graduate of Washington University in St. Louis, where she received a Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology and Japanese. This summer, she worked at the City of Long Beach with the Technology and Innovation Office and Office of Sustainability, alongside Diya Baliga and Joyce Mok, as a Design Fellow to utilize a human-centered design process to design and develop technology to promote climate action initiatives in the city. As part of the team, she was involved in user research, research synthesis, design brainstorming, wireframing and prototyping, and usability testing. Their efforts led to an improved dashboard that better communicates the information in the city's Climate Action and Adaptation Plan and invites people to participate in climate action with the city. They also created a web app to support the city’s tree planting program to increase urban greening in Long Beach.

**Yuval Keren** | [Presentation](Yuval_Keren_Alyson_Lam_Parita_Shah.pdf)
 
### Contact
Please contact [our team](https://www.codingitforward.com/contact) with any questions.
